this is Neil Patel
helping you succeed through online
marketing all right so we are going to
talk about how Twitter's algorithm has
been open sourced and the implications
behind that in business and in marketing
yeah there was a news article about
Twitter's algorithm and how someone
ended up leaking it out I don't think it
was Twitter who ended up releasing it
right I'm pretty sure it was no they
released it the GitHub and uh Elon said
he would do it um you know a year ago
okay that's great so he's he's releasing
his source code and the moment it is
open source the other thing you're going
to end up finding which we're already
seeing right now is a lot of other
players using some of the code to go and
create copycats and in marketing if you
make it easy for other people to copy
you you are gonna get copycat it doesn't
mean they're going to be successful but
on the flip side it ends up building out
a lot of trust if you end up releasing
you know everything out there you're
letting people know what you're doing
you're actually building a bigger sense
of community than if you didn't do that
which I thought was a really smart move
on elon's end he doesn't need to open
source he doesn't need to reveal all
these things kind of um with the Twitter
business right build his own City
no he doesn't need to go to Mars he
doesn't need to do all that stuff have
you used darling I just use it for the
first time flying back this weekend or
flying to exactly yeah I'm like whoa
like starlink's amazing
dude so I was looking at the cost to put
jsx in a plane it's 15 to 25 Grand I
believe was the cost on a monthly basis
it's expensive well it's amazing that I
mean but we digress so I want to show
you kind of from a marketer standpoint
what you can learn about the the open
sourcing because like you have
developers that are kind of breaking
down like hey this is actually how this
part works like do you actually get a
boost over here so I'm going to share
this um over here okay so some initial
takeaways you're following to follow our
ratio matters right it's like if you're
if you get if you have a hundred
thousand followers and you have a
hundred thousand people that you're
following
um I guess it matters like I never
thought that would matter
um what do you think about that like I
never thought that was a big deal but
apparently because back in the day
people are using Twitter uh to get
followers by just following a ton of
people and a lot of people ought to fall
back and then they removed the followers
that didn't follow back and then they
start following more they were doing
that heavily even I was doing that
heavily once Twitter first came out when
I first met Neil we're like this is like
when we're like both like 25 or 26 so
this is like 10 plus years ago
um I would go to his place in Seattle
and he had a separate Mac running and
the only thing the other math was
running was the app
because it was following people and then
it would unfollow them because what you
do in the app is you put a keyword of
all the followers you want to follow you
so like I would put an SEO or digital
marketing and find all the people
tweeting about that stuff follow them
and then seven days later for the people
who didn't follow back it would unfollow
but I had a computer just running doing
that one thing full time yep um and then
okay Twitter blue so if you're paid for
Twitter subscribers do get a slight
booth in the algorithm and then you can
see over here here's the um this here's
the open source over here the code
um and so if here's what I wanted to
call out over here let's not call out
like this you know this uh political
stuff but here's the one that I enjoy
the most over here so to put these
feedback loops into perspective a user
clicking on your Tweet and staying there
for greater than two minutes is waited
20 times more than them just liking your
Tweet okay
now if they click into your profile
through your Tweet and like reply to a
tweet 24 times more than a like if they
reply to your Tweet 54 times more than a
like if they reply to your Tweet and
they respond to your reply
150x more than a like right and if they
report your Tweet negative 738 x right I
don't know where he got that number from
but it's just good to see the inner
workings of this I like to see this
summarized a little more dude I love
this if they report your treat negative
738x the effect of the like parentheses
you're basically screwed
yep yep um government requested so you
can see there's a class here like if the
government requests like a takedown or
something like that like it's all in
here and so are we going to see more
copycats like absolutely but I think the
fact that he's doing this it will build
more trust um but here's the other thing
like there is a risk here
um because open sourcing this like oh
why can't I just like rebuild this or
someone can Fork it and like you know
completely just focus on this like that
could be a very big risk there so and
then you're also going to get more
politicians and government scrutinizing
how you're doing things and paying
people to look at the code and figure
out more ways to see you and make a
quick Buck oh well check this out check
this out check this out one second your
tweets relevancy decreases over time at
a rate of 50 every six hours that's a
lot
yeah so you need people to interact
within the first few hours of a tweet as
quick as possible and you're gonna more
likely to do better but look I'm a big
believer in being transparent with the
community the more transparent you are
and the more open you are I believe
you're going to build a stronger
community and you're gonna do better in
the long run you're gonna get some
haters from it but it is worth it now if
you have any questions leave a comment
below I'm here to answer them and help
you out if you enjoyed the video like
and share it tell us people about it
thank you very much